# Welcome to the documentation for PlantCV

## Overview

[PlantCV](http://plantcv.danforthcenter.org) is composed of modular functions in order to be applicable to a 
variety of plant types and imaging systems. In the following documentation we describe use of each function and 
provide tutorials on how each function is used in the context of an overall image-processing workflow. PlantCV 
currently supports the analysis of standard RGB color images (aka "VIS"), standard grayscale images (e.g. 
near-infrared, "NIR"), thermal infrared images, grayscale images from chlorophyll fluorescence imaging systems 
("PSII"), and hyperspectral ("ENVI") images. Support for additional image types is under development. Development of 
PlantCV is ongoing---we encourage input from the greater plant phenomics community. Please post questions and comments 
on the [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/danforthcenter/plantcv/issues).

## Getting started

If this is your first time using PlantCV, we recommend following this list of documentation pages to get started: 

* [Install PlantCV](installation.md)
* [Use PlantCV with Jupyter Notebooks](jupyter.md)
* [Get started buildling an image analysis workflow](analysis_approach.md)
* [Run your workflow in parallel](pipeline_parallel.md)
* [Use the json2csv tool to convert results files to csv](tools.md)
* [Summary of output measurements generated by PlantCV](output_measurements.md)

!!! tip
    Documentation for individual PlantCV functions are listed under the headings "PlantCV Namespace" in the sidebar. 

Other useful reference pages: 

* [Updating PlantCV](updating.md)
* [Frequently Asked Questions](faq.md)

## Tutorials 

Check out our tutorials below or in our [Tutorial Gallery](tutorials.md) to learn how to analyze different types of images: 

* [VIS/RGB Image Processing](tutorials/vis_tutorial.md)
* [Grayscale Image Processing](tutorials/grayscale_tutorial.md)
* [PSII Image Processing](tutorials/psII_tutorial.md)
* [VIS / NIR Dual Workflows](tutorials/vis_nir_tutorial.md)
* [Multi Plant Image Processing](tutorials/multi-plant_tutorial.md)
* [Morphology Package](tutorials/morphology_tutorial.md) 
* [Thermal Image Processing](tutorials/thermal_tutorial.md)
* [Hyperspectral Image Processing](tutorials/hyperspectral_tutorial.md)
* [Machine Learning Tutorial](tutorials/machine_learning_tutorial.md)
* [Parallel Image Processing](pipeline_parallel.md)
* [Exporting Data for Downstream Analysis](db-exporter.md)

## Contributing 

If you are interested in contributing to PlantCV, please see:

* [Contribution Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Documentation Guide](documentation.md)
* [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Versions

The documentation defaults to the `stable` version of PlantCV which is the current release version available from
PyPI and Bioconda. Documentation for all releases from v1.1 on are also available via the standard Read the Docs 
popup/pulldown menu (bottom right corner). Select the `latest` version to get the most up-to-date documentation
associated with the current code in GitHub.

[Return to the PlantCV homepage](http://plantcv.danforthcenter.org)
